# **Python-Challenge**
The Python-Challenge repository is made up of two real-world situations requiring the use of Python to analyze large data sets in order to efficiently draw conclusions. The **PyBank** and the **Voting Poll Outcome** use iterative loops, conditional statements, lists and dictionaries as the primary components of the respective scripts. 

## **PyBank**

### Overview

The goal of the **PyBank** challenge is to analyze a company's financial records in order to draw conclusions about the performance of the company through profit and loss measures. Fortunately, the company's accounting practices are fairly laid back, with the dataset made up of only two columns *Date* and *Profit/Losses*. The file containing the data is called **election_data.csv** The script leverages lists, iterative loops and conditional statements to analyze the data and output the results as a text file and print to terminal. 

### File Structure

The **PyBank** folder contains all of the necessary **Company Financial Analysis** files and folders according to the structure below.. 

The **PyBank** folder has the following structure:

PyBank:
- Analysis
    - budget_analysis_output.txt
- Resources
    - budget_data.csv
- main.py

### Running the Script

1. Verify that the folder and file structure being used on your local directory matches that of the outlined file structure, **excluding** the **budget_analysis_output.txt** file. The output file will be automatically generated by the script if a file within the **Analysis** folder with the same name does not already exist.

2. Open local machine Terminal/GitBash

3. Navigate to the appropriate **PyBank** directory where all of the **Company Financial Analysis** folders and files are stored. 

4. Input the **python main.py** command and execute.

### Output

The Python script analyzes the monthly financial records to calculate each of the following:

  - The total number of months included in the dataset (**Total Months**)

  - The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period (**Total**)

  - The average month over month change in "Profit/Losses" (**Average Change**)

  - The greatest month over month increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period (**Greatest Increase in Profits**)

  - The greatest decrease in month over month losses (date and amount) over the entire period (**Greatest Decrease in Profits**)

The results are then printed to the Terminal and saved in the **Analysis** folder as the text file **budget_analysis_output.txt**

### Results

Based on the Python script, the results of the analysis are as follows: 

Financial Analysis:

Total Months: 86
Total: $38382578.0
Average Change: $-2315.12
Greatest Increase in Profits: $1926159.0 on Feb-2012
Greatest Decrease in Profits: $-2196167.0 on Sep-2013

## **PyPoll**

### Overview

The goal of the PyPoll challenge is to assist a small rural town in updating their vote counting process through the use of python. The dataset is made up of three columns *Voter ID*, *County* and the *Candidate*. The script leverages lists, dictionaries, iterative loops and conditional statements to analyze the data and output the results of the election.

### File Structure

The **Voting Poll Outcome** is stored within the **PyPoll** folder. 

The **PyPoll** folder has the following structure:

PyPoll:
- Analysis
    - election_analysis_output.txt
- Resources
    - election_data.csv
- main.py

### Running the Script

1. Verify that the folder and file structure being used on your local directory matches that of the outlined file structure, **excluding** the **election_analysis_output.txt** file. The output file will be automatically generated by the script if a file within the **Analysis** folder with the same name does not already exist.

2. Open local machine Terminal/GitBash

3. Navigate to the appropriate **PyPoll** directory where all of the **Voting Poll Outcome** folders and files are stored. 

4. Input the **python main.py** command and execute.

### Output

The Python script analyzes the votes to calculate each of the following:

  - The total number of votes cast (**Total Votes**)

  - A complete list of candidates who received votes

  - The percentage of votes each candidate won

  - The total number of votes each candidate won

  - The winner of the election based on popular vote (**Winner**)
    
### Results
   
Based on the Python script, the results of the analysis are as follows: 

Election Results

Total Votes: 3521001

Khan: 63.0% (2218231)
Correy: 20.0% (704200)
Li: 14.0% (492940)
O'Tooley: 3.0% (105630)

Winner: Khan
